## Lab 1

My overall experience in working in collaboration with a group was very positive. The objective of the last collaboration was to come up with a project/app idea that we’d want to build and to brainstorm possible requirements for the idea. My group decided on a game called MAREEO Shooting With Them, which will be a freemium 2D platform shooter game. Next, we brainstormed the components we will need to build the game. Some components include sprites/character modes/assets, UI/UX, story, in-game transactions, and multiplayer. To build these components we will need to divide the tasks among the group members. Each component can be made independently of other components and newer components can be added as the game continues development. In addition to these components, we brainstormed possible gameplay modes that can be implemented such as death match or capture the flag and how they work. One of our goals is to create a game that has diverse game modes that will make the game more appealing to a larger audience. To get a sense of how each game mode will work, we tried relating them to popular games that some of us might be familiar with. We created a space in a google doc for people to list out the programming languages or skills they are familiar with. Java had the most ‘tallies’ with C++ and JavaScript being tied with 4 tallies.This is an okay balance of knowledge because the front-end can be done using javascript, (which had only four tallies) but backend can be done with either C++, Java, or a JS framework. We will continue to discuss how this application could be divided up better to make the workload balanced. The team dynamic was overall positive. Everyone was respectful of others’ opinions and ideas and if an idea was not good, there was constructive criticism. I was surprised that we were able to be efficient in discussing ideas and coming to an agreement very quickly through Zoom. I expected many things to take longer than usual since being an organized team through Zoom can be difficult. We did not get a chance to split into sub teams yet but I think splitting into sub teams will be just as efficient. Each sub-team will have a single task that can be focused on and not have to worry about other parts. From my previous experience, collaboration makes app development very efficient as compared to solo. Being able to split the work among different people lessens the stress on a person and makes development faster. I recently had to learn JS, HTML, CSS, and React and a few other backend technologies like Node.js and collaborated with a few people to build a full-stack web application. The small application was a shopping website that we launched. The project took a week and a half with a group of 4. If I had been working on it by myself it would’ve taken me at least 2-3 months. Collaboration was very easy because of github. We had communicated clearly and planned out the whole project prior to starting. We also divided up the project to accommodate each member’s strengths. We were lucky in that two of us were good with the front end and the other two were good with the back end. For this project I will use my previous collaboration experience working on this project and work on improving the things I thought I should improve on on the last collaboration.
