Haitham Alnajar, Lab 3

The job that piqued my interest was for a fullstack engineer for a company called One Drop. I found it through the built in NYC job board. In the recent months, I’ve gotten interested in web development and have started delving into JS, HTML, CSS, and React. I had spent my last winter break learning as much as I could. I also familiarize myself with Node.js, express, PostgreSQL, and Ajax. Near the end of the winter break I and a few others created a full stack project, a shopping website similar to gamestop. Although I was able to work on this project, I struggled greatly. For the job posting, the company required experience with fullstack web development, knowledge of ES6 JS, a modern JS library like React, Vue, or Angular, experience with RESTful APIs, understanding Web Application Security, and experience with Google analytics or similar products, PHP or Node API development, SQL experience preferably Postgres, and lastly experience with JVM languages. For the requirements, I realise that I still have much to improve on and even though I might ‘tick’ the box for knowledge of a JS library like React, I will be continuing to learn more about it.

To prepare for the job interview, I will be reviewing data structures and algorithms since this is what I’ve read about online that almost every company tests interviewees on using leetcode. As for the skills that I’m not qualified for such as PHP or Node API development, I think the best way to learn is to read a textbook and start implementing them in an existing project if possible or start a new project implementing them. I tend to learn programming concepts best if I start using them. Also reading the documentation for a technology is a good way to learn, although not all of them are good. My experience with the React official documentation was not good so I resorted to outside resources. For the web application security requirement, I have almost no knowledge of this and I will have to start learning it from scratch. I will start by watching an introduction on youtube and looking for a free learning resource such as FreeCodeCamp, and again, try to implement this in a previous project. I usually like to dedicate either 1-2 hours a day or about 5 hours a week in total to programming. There have been many times where I solved a programming problem by not actively thinking about it and the solution just passively came to me. As for the Google analytics requirement, I also have no knowledge of it and will be implementing a similar learning strategy for it.
